README.md, before:

# SimpleScreenShot - SSS

A simple screenshot program written in C + XCB api

## 📋 Features

+ 2 button program(hold left click to draw box, release to take pic, right click to quit)
+ Creates PNG format output screenshots
+ Option to take screenshot of whole screen or drawn area
+ Minimal dependencies, no toolkits
+ Easily built from source, configurations made by editing source code

## 🚀 Download & Installation

Clone repository to directory of choice and enter cloned repository
```shell
git clone https://github.com/leath-dub/SimpleScreenShot.git
cd SimpleScreenShot
```
Run ``make`` to see build options
```shell
$ make

╭───┤ SSS ├──────────╮
│────────────────────│
│ sss build options: │
│   ├───> install    │
│   ├───> here       │
│   ├───> link       │
│   ├───> unlink     │
│   └───> uninstall  │
╰────────────────────╯

CFLAGS = -lxcb-image -lxcb -lxcb-shm -lpng16 -lz
CC     = gcc

```
To install normally run:
```shell
sudo make install
```
To uninstall normally run:
```shell
sudo make uninstall
```
### ❓Other build options:

+ here 🠒 compiles to current directory
+ link 🠒 compiles to current directory and creates symbolic link in binary directory
+ unlink 🠒 removes symbolic link

## 🏃‍♂️ Usage

SS_DIR = ``$PWD`` (specified in ``config.h``)

Run with no arguments(creates ``SS_DIR/screenshot.png``):
```shell
sss
```
Run with `-n` option to specify a name(put in ``SS_DIR``):
```shell
sss -n test.png
```
Run with `-f` option alone(creates ``SS_DIR/fullscreen.png``):
```shell
sss -f
```
Run with `-f` option and specified name(put in ``SS_DIR``):
```shell
sss -f test.png
```

### 🗒️ Notes

+ the last box drawn will be the screenshot written
+ the program does not append numbers, e.g. ``ss-1.png, ss-2.png, etc``.
if there is a conflict in nameing the old version is overwritten

TODO: add video of how to use the program

## ⚙️ Configuration

Configuration is very minimal currently. It is done through the ``config.h``
source file, the contents are as follows:
```c
#define LINE_WIDTH 4 /* width of drawn box lines */
#define LINE_COLOR 0xEBDBB2 /* color of drawn box lines */
#define SS_DIR "~/Desktop/" /* directory you want screenshots to go in */
```

### 🗒️Notes

+ The actual captured area will be bound to the size drawn by the user, excluding
the lines visable and what they obscure
+ You must recompile each time you make a change to configuration
+ If you wish to remove the source files after compilation, this is fine,
just make sure that you are happy with your configuration as you cannot change
it without recompiling

Commit message:

made the configuration of path clearer

README.md, after:

# SimpleScreenShot - SSS

A simple screenshot program written in C + XCB api

## 📋 Features

+ 2 button program(hold left click to draw box, release to take pic, right click to quit)
+ Creates PNG format output screenshots
+ Option to take screenshot of whole screen or drawn area
+ Minimal dependencies, no toolkits
+ Easily built from source, configurations made by editing source code

## 🚀 Download & Installation

Clone repository to directory of choice and enter cloned repository
```shell
git clone https://github.com/leath-dub/SimpleScreenShot.git
cd SimpleScreenShot
```
Run ``make`` to see build options
```shell
$ make

╭───┤ SSS ├──────────╮
│────────────────────│
│ sss build options: │
│   ├───> install    │
│   ├───> here       │
│   ├───> link       │
│   ├───> unlink     │
│   └───> uninstall  │
╰────────────────────╯

CFLAGS = -lxcb-image -lxcb -lxcb-shm -lpng16 -lz
CC     = gcc

```
To install normally run:
```shell
sudo make install
```
To uninstall normally run:
```shell
sudo make uninstall
```
### ❓Other build options:

+ here 🠒 compiles to current directory
+ link 🠒 compiles to current directory and creates symbolic link in binary directory
+ unlink 🠒 removes symbolic link

## 🏃‍♂️ Usage

SS_DIR = ``$PWD`` (specified in ``config.h``)

Run with no arguments(creates ``SS_DIR/screenshot.png``):
```shell
sss
```
Run with `-n` option to specify a name(put in ``SS_DIR``):
```shell
sss -n test.png
```
Run with `-f` option alone(creates ``SS_DIR/fullscreen.png``):
```shell
sss -f
```
Run with `-f` option and specified name(put in ``SS_DIR``):
```shell
sss -f test.png
```

### 🗒️ Notes

+ the last box drawn will be the screenshot written
+ the program does not append numbers, e.g. ``ss-1.png, ss-2.png, etc``.
if there is a conflict in nameing the old version is overwritten

TODO: add video of how to use the program

## ⚙️ Configuration

Configuration is very minimal currently. It is done through the ``config.h``
source file, the contents are as follows:
```c
#define LINE_WIDTH 4 /* width of drawn box lines */
#define LINE_COLOR 0xEBDBB2 /* color of drawn box lines */
#define SS_DIR SRC_DIR "/screenshots/" /* directory you want screenshots to go in */
```

### 🗒️ Notes

+ The actual captured area will be bound to the size drawn by the user, excluding
the lines visable and what they obscure
+ You must recompile each time you make a change to configuration
+ If you wish to remove the source files after compilation, this is fine,
just make sure that you are happy with your configuration as you cannot change
it without recompiling
+ You must give ``SS_DIR`` an absolute path if you remove ``SRC_DIR``. E.g.
if I wanted to put screenshots in my home folder I would change:
```c
#define SS_DIR SRC_DIR "/screenshots/" /* directory you want screenshots to go in */
```
to:
```c
#define SS_DIR "/home/MYNAME/" /* directory you want screenshots to go in */
```
